.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii foo.1
.\"
.TH "Fizz Buzz" "Code Kata"
.SH SYNOPSIS

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

Fizz buzz (also known as bizz buzz, or simply buzz) is a group word
game for children to teach them about division.[1] Players take turns
to count incrementally, replacing any number divisible by three with
the word "fizz", and any number divisible by five with the word
"buzz".

.SH PLAY

Players generally sit in a circle. The player designated to go first
says the number "1", and each player thenceforth counts one number in
turn. However, any number divisible by three is replaced by the word
fizz and any divisible by five by the word buzz. Numbers divisible by
both become fizz buzz. A player who hesitates or makes a mistake is
eliminated from the game.

For example, a typical round of fizz buzz would start as follows:

1, 2, Fizz, 4, Buzz, Fizz, 7, 8, Fizz, Buzz, 11, Fizz, 13, 14, Fizz
Buzz, 16, 17, Fizz, 19, Buzz, Fizz, 22, 23, Fizz, Buzz, 26, Fizz, 28,
29, Fizz Buzz, 31, 32, Fizz, 34, Buzz, Fizz, ...

.SH VARIATIONS

Different divisors can be used in place of, or in addition, to 3 and
5, and different words or gestures can replace "fizz" or "buzz". For
example, in Australia a variant based on the game of cricket is
played. In this variant, the special numbers are 4 and 6, which are
replaced with the cricket umpiring gestures for their respective
scoring plays. A common version of the game in Israel is called "7
Boom". The players replace every number divisible by 7 or containing
the digit 7 with "boom".[citation needed]

Instead of replacing numbers that have 3 or 5 as a factor, the game
can be played by replacing numbers containing the digit 3 or 5 with
"fizz" or "buzz".

1, 2, Fizz, 4, Buzz, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, Fizz, 14, Buzz, 16, 17,
18, 19, 20, 21, 22, Fizz, 24, Buzz, 26, 27, 28, 29, Fizz, Fizz, Fizz,
Fizz Fizz, Fizz, Fizz Buzz, Fizz, Fizz, Fizz, Fizz, 40, 41, 42, Fizz,
44, Buzz, ...

In these variations, sometimes only the actual digit is replaced, so
23 becomes "twenty-fizz" and 50 is "buzzty". This variation can be
combined with the original to form an even more challenging sequence:

1, 2, Fizz, 4, Buzz, Fizz, 7, 8, Fizz, Buzz, 11, Fizz, Fizz, 14, Fizz
Buzz, 16, 17, Fizz, 19, Buzz, Fizz, 22, Fizz, Fizz, Buzz, 26, Fizz,
28, 29, Fizz Buzz, Fizz, Fizz, Fizz Fizz, Fizz, Fizz Buzz, Fizz, Fizz,
Fizz, Fizz, Buzz, 41, Fizz, Fizz, 44, Fizz Buzz, ...

The game can be played in a mathematical base other than 10. For
example, playing in base 5 would proceed as follows:

1, 2, Fizz, 4, Buzz, Fizz, 12, 13, Fizz, Buzz, 21, Fizz, 23, 24, Fizz
Buzz, 31, 32, Fizz, 34, Buzz, Fizz, ...

More challenging variation has the direction of play change on Fizz or
Buzz, but not on Fizz-Buzz. For certain sequences, this makes the
action bounce between 2 or 3 players and causes misplays when it
breaks out. The 3/7 version of the game has a complex sequence between
12 and 18, for example. A New Jersey variation is just to say buzz on
prime numbers and switch directions. The reversal of direction may be
optional.

.SH Fizz Buzz Woof

One variation has expanded to such an extent as to have its own
related name.[citation needed] Many of the above rules are the
same. In this case, the number 3 becomes Fizz, 5 becomes Buzz, and 7
becomes Woof. The main rules in this game are that any number that
contains the number or is divisible by that number is replaced by an
occurrence of the word. If the number has 2 instances of that number
(i.e. 33 or 55) and is divisible by that number, then the word is said
three times in this example. The additional rule is that the words (if
more than one occur) must be said in the order given in the title. For
example:

1, 2, Fizz Fizz (3), 4, Buzz Buzz (5), Fizz (6), Woof Woof (7), 8,
Fizz (9), Buzz (10), 11, Fizz (12), Fizz (13), Woof (14), Fizz Buzz
Buzz (15), 16, Woof (17), Fizz (18), 19, Buzz (20), Fizz Woof (21),
22, Fizz (23), Fizz (24), Buzz Buzz (25), 26, Fizz Woof (27), Woof
(28), 29, Fizz Fizz Buzz (30), Fizz (31), Fizz (32), Fizz Fizz Fizz
(33), ...
